- Introduce your self

- Projects

- Git & GitHub

- Basics of Docker

- OSI layer

- find vs grep 

- Bucket policy

- systemd and systemctl


What is cloud computing - over the use of internet we can create resources store data retrive 
data we can create server

- Booting process
1) BIOS
BIOS stands for Basic Input/Output System
Searches, loads, and executes the boot loader program.
Once the boot loader program is detected and loaded into the memory, BIOS gives the control to it.
So, in simple terms BIOS loads and executes the MBR boot loader.

2) MBR
MBR stands for Master Boot Record.
It contains information about GRUB (or LILO in old systems).
So, in simple terms MBR loads and executes the GRUB boot loader

3) GRUB (Grand Unified Bootloader)
If you have multiple kernel images installed on your system, you can choose which one to be executed.
GRUB displays a splash screen, waits for few seconds, if you don’t enter anything, it loads the 
default kernel image as specified in the grub configuration file.
GRUB just loads and executes Kernel and initrd images

4) Kernel
Kernel executes the /sbin/init program

5) Init

6) Runlevel programs
The GRUB (Grand Unified Bootloader) is a tool for booting and loading operating 
system kernels and the default bootloader for systems based on the Linux kernel. 


ML deployment with cloud


Sorry, I am not aware about this.


- package manager is a group of software tools. It automates the installation process, upgrading
 process, configuration process, and removing process of the computer programs for an operating system 
 of the computer in an efficient manner. 

- Apt (Advanced Package Tool) package management system is a set of tools to download, install, 
remove, upgrade, configure and manage Debian packages, and therefore all software installed on a 
Debian system.

- Dpkg is a base package management system for the Debian Linux family, it is used to install, 
remove, store and provide information about .deb packages.

Absolute path - Described in relation to root. starts with /
Relative path - path is relative to your current working directory

cd- : switch last current directory.

Less command is a Linux utility that can be used to read the contents of a text file one 
page(one screen) at a time. 


- Web server : It is a computer that runs website. Basic objective of web server is store, process
and deliver web pages to user. This inter communication done using http. because browser only know HTML

Apache http server
NGINx
Lighttpd Web Server
Apache tomcat
NodeJS

- Install Apache Server
sudo apt install apache2 - Debian/Ubuntu
sudo yum install httpd - RHEL/CentOS

- Check Apache Version
sudo httpd -v

- Start Apache Service
sudo systemctl start httpd (for systemd)
sudo systemctl start apache2 (for systemd)

- Enable Apache Service
sudo systemctl enable httpd
sudo systemctl enable apache2

- View Apache Service Status
sudo systemctl status httpd
sudo systemctl status apache2


Command line utilities are tools that you can run on the command line of a computer.

glacier vs deep


sns vs sqs
Simple Notification Service (HTTP,HTTPS,Email,SMS,Lambda)
It allows to send single message or same message send to multple peoples.
Reliable - Atleast store 3 copy of the data store in multiple az in one region.
We can use with Auto scaling.
SNS topic - In that we creating our message.
Amazon Resource Names (ARNs) uniquely identify AWS resources.
1 SNS topic have multiple subscriber. And if requirment is some subscriber to send SMS some to send 
Email then we can send at same time.
Alternative of SNS Amazon MQ (Managed Queue Service), Apache kafka.




how to find how much storage is occiuped in disk
df command

how to take backup in linux.
cp --backup <filename> <destinationDirectory>

which command is used if we want a perticular data from file.


how to find directory using space
du

ps aux
port - sudo netstat -tulpn

Docker
One App in one server. They did'nt have solution multiple application runs on server. If application load is 
increase you need to buy another server. And you need other application run on server then also need to buy server.4
This is not for cost.

VMWare solve this problem.  
Virtual machine solve problem like you can run multiple app in same server.
The biggest problem with this is vm require their own OS.
OS use like your cpu, ram and some hdd. It is still not perfect. you need to have new os if you want to use vm  


Data Migration 
Scalability and Elasticity



1. C vs. C++
2. Which of these is bottom up approach?
3. Describe C++ (features of C++)
Why do you want to join us?
Would you be able to work the night shift?
Which cloud solution you have worked on in the past?
Most stressful situations and how handled it
Types of clouds
What is cloud computing
Why go for cloud
What is IAAS PAAS SAAS
Nepotism
Coding was on to sort Alpha Numeric String in a given order and to check the validity of a string
How is data privacy important?
Which language supports bottom up approach
What is the difference between a coder and a programmer?
what is oops? Explain
Why cloud engineer?
why we should hire you
Introduce yourself.
Which Language are you comfortable with.
Which of the C and C++ follow the bottom-up approach?
What is the difference between C and C++?
What are the features of OOP?
Can you relocate?
Can you work in shifts?
Introduce yourself
Why interested in ML/AI?
How did you get interested in the cloud?
Why Hanu?
Whats are the services of the cloud?
Can you relocate?
Can you work in shifts?
Did you work on any projects in the cloud?
Why CSE?
What is your future aspiration?
Tell me about your family background.
Do you have any siblings?



cloud is service that is used to store data over the internet

RDS - Relational form to store data. Row and col

Strength - Quick learner, self motivated, Dicipline, talkative

vertulization - create machine over the internet

container to store data 

Github - we can store code. It is distributed system for versioning 

In computer we can can't store large amount of data. ANd using cloud we can access our data without any losses

dedicated for my work. I have good knowledge of 

salary is not essential thing for me. Growth oppotunity is more important